In this tutorial, let's move on to ammunition and start with an additional data type - a structure
we'll call FAmmoData. We declare it in the BaseWeapon header file above the main weapon classes.
And let's see what fields we need in this structure. Copy the property macro.
The first field in the structure will be named Bullets. This field will be of the int32 integer type.
And this field will be responsible for the number of cartridges in the store.
The second field of the structure will be called Clips. It will also be of integer type.
And it will be responsible for the number of magazines and clips for the current weapon.
And the last 3 field of the structure will be of type boolean. Let's call this field Infinite.
It will determine whether a given weapon has a finite arsenal or not. The arsenal of the rifle will be unlimited, we will be able to shoot endlessly from it.
And the launcher will have a limited number of cartridges, that is, if the arsenal runs out,
then we simply cannot shoot from it. We can add meta information to the property Clips:
EditCondition we used when working in the health component with property AutoHeal.
We can indicate that property Clips is available for editing if and only if we have a
finite arsenal. When we can shoot from a given weapon endlessly, then this property simply
will not make sense, as we will see later. So, the structure is ready. Let's go to the BaseWeapon class
and in the protected section create a property with this FAmmoData type. Let's call it DefaultAmmo.
This property will be responsible for the initial arsenal of weapons. We can initialize it.
Let's indicate some value, for example, there can be 15 rounds in a clip,
10 clips and the arsenal is finite. We set the last variable to false. And the second property of this type
will be responsible for the current arsenal of weapons. Let's declare it in the private section.
This variable is purely for internal use. It shouldn't be visible in blueprints. Let's call it CurrentAmmo.
The first thing we will do with you is to initialize the CurrentAmmo variable on the BeginPlay,
assigning it the DefaultAmmo value. We return to the .h file.
Let's declare a few functions that we need to implement the logic of our arsenal.
Let's create them in the protected section. The first function will be called DecreaseAmmo. This function will be
called every time after a shot. In fact, it will reduce the number of rounds.
The next helper function is IsAmmoEmpty. It will return true when our arsenal is completely empty.
That is, the number of cartridges is zero and the number of clips is zero.
The next function is called IsCLipEmpty. It returns true when the current clip is empty.
That is, in fact, this function will check whether we need to reload the current clip.
The next function is called ChangeClip. This function will contain the logic of replacing the current clip with a new one.
And the last helper function. Let's call it LogAmmo.
We don't have a user interface yet, so let's temporarily output all the information to the console.
Let's create a body for each function.
Let's take a look at the LogAmmo function right away. Let's create a local variable.
The string to be printed to the console. Let's call the variable AmmoInfo.
And we will display some text "Ammo:"
Add the number of cartridges to the line. Let's use the FromInt function for this.
And we pass the CurrentAmmo.Bullets parameter to this function.
Next, add the separator "/"
And on a new line, add to AmmoInfo either the number of clips if the arsenal is finite, or the text "inifinite" if the arsenal is infinite.
To do this, we will use the ternary operator and we will check our infinite flag
AND just output this line to the log.
Next, let's implement the IsClipEmpty function. This is a fairly simple function, it returns true when
our number of cartridges is zero, that is, our current magazine is empty. Next, go to the IsAmmoEmpty function.
This function returns true when the arsenal is completely empty, that is, we cannot
shoot any more from this weapon. For this, several conditions must be met: the arsenal must be finite, the
next condition is that the number of clips is zero, that is, CurrentAmmo.Clips is zero
and the number of cartridges must also be zero.
We can call an already existing function with the given IsClipEmpty condition.
Let's move on to the next function DecreaseAmmo, here we have a decrease in ammunition.
The first thing we need to do when this function is called. This will reduce the number of rounds.
After that, let's call the LogAmmo function to see how our ammunition has changed.
After that, we can check if we need a recharge or not. To do this, we need two conditions:
first - the clip must be empty, that is, the IsClipEmpty function must return true and the second condition - our arsenal is not empty.
IsAmmoEmpty should return false. If these conditions are met, then you and I can change the clip.
To do this, we call the ChangeClip function, which has not yet been implemented.
Let's fix this. Go to the ChangeClip function and replenish our clipboard.
We set the number of cartridges to the default value. For this we use the DefaultAmmo structure.
And if the number of supplies is not infinite,
then we must reduce the number of clips.
We will also add a message that a recharge has occurred.
The ammunition logic is ready and now we can call these functions when we are shooting,
that is, in the MakeShot function. Go to the rifle class, to the MakeShot function and first add the condition:
if IsAmmoEmpty, that is, the arsenal of weapons is empty, then we cannot shoot and exit the MakeShot function.
And when we have fired, we must reduce the number of cartridges, so we call the DecreaseAmmo function.
Go to the launcher class and add exactly the same logic.
We compile the project.
Let's set up the blueprint of the weapon class. Let's start with the rifle.
We find in the weapon category, our property DefaultAmmo.
We will not change the number of cartridges, but set property infinite = true,
that is, the rifle will have unlimited ammunition. Go to the launcher class.
We find the DefaultAmmo and set the number of cartridges in the clip equal to one, and set the number of clips equal to 5,
that is, we will actually reload our grenade launcher every time after firing.
We open the log. We start the game and start shooting. We look in the log. The rifle is shooting.
The arsenal is not limited, so infinite is displayed. "Change clip" was also printed,
that is, we reloaded. Let's change to a launcher. We start shooting.
Each time "Change clip" is printed. After we have spent the last round, we can no longer shoot from this weapon.
There were five clips, but we fired six shots, because our current clip is full by default.
There is nothing wrong with that, but if you wish, it can also be corrected.
We have one small bug.
In the MakeShot function at the very top, let's print the message "Make shot". We will use the temporary
logging category. We only need this log for one minute.
We launch the project. Open the rifle's blueprint and temporarily remove the endless mode.
Let's set the number of clips equal to one.
We start the game. We look in the log. We shoot all our clips and if the mouse is not released,
then "Make shot" will be printed in the log. Our arsenal has run out, but the timer
continues to run. We return to the code. When the arsenal is empty,
let's not just exit the function, but also stop firing.
To do this, call the StopFire function.
GetTraceData can return false as well. We also add a call to the StopFire function to this exit point.
Launch the editor. Press the play button. We shoot all the ammunition.
The timer was getting better. "Make shot" is no longer logged.